What made Ezra such a sterling example of faith and trust in God?
More importantly, how can you and I?
How can we imitate the total reliance that Ezra put on Jehovah God and in his word?
Well, let's find out.
Let's examine Ezra chapter 7.
Let's open our Bibles to Ezra chapter 7.
And we're going to look at verse 6 and 7.
Now, verse 6, it says Ezra came up from Babylon.
So that's where he lived.
Remember, he was under the Meadow Persian Empire at the time.
And he lived there, and he was well versed in the law, skilled copious.
But verse 7, it says that he went up to Jerusalem now in the seventh year of King Artisercis.
Now, the seventh year of King Artisercis would be the year 468 BCE.
So as a reference point, we have 607 BCE when Jerusalem was destroyed,
537 when the Jews returned to their homeland in Jerusalem,
515 under the encouragement of Haggai and Zechariah,
and the Jews rebuilt the temple to Jehovah.
Now, at that time Ezra probably wasn't even born yet.
So he enters into the picture here in the year 468 BCE.
But the question is, what would have moved Ezra to want to move to Jerusalem?
He was probably about 30 years old when he made this move.
And he wanted to advance pure worship, even as it mentions in verse 10,
that he wanted to teach the regulations and judgments in Israel, but what would have moved him to do that?
Ezra would have lived during the time period of Esther and Mordekai.
And that was the time period when Haman tried to exterminate the Jews.
Now, that was in the year 484 BCE, and Ezra was a teenager at that time.
So he would have seen firsthand how Jehovah defended his people,
how Jehovah strengthened and cared for his people.
This event, this national crisis,
would have made an indelible impression and imprint on that young man's mind and heart.
And no doubt he said to himself, when I get of age, I want to go to Jerusalem.
I want to be there to help and advance pure worship.
So that's what he decided to do.
However, it wasn't easy for Ezra to make this move to Jerusalem.
And that's where we come to verse 10.
Ezra had prepared his heart to consult the law of Jehovah,
so to prepare his heart, what did Ezra have to do?
How did he prepare his heart?
We must have asked himself questions.
Why do I want to go to Jerusalem?
Is it just to make a name for myself or is it to honor Jehovah?
How do I feel about going there?
How do I feel about leaving my family and my friends
in this comfortable way of life that I have here in Babylon?
And I'm going to leave it all behind, I'm going to move to this distant land
and to live under circumstances that would be difficult.
So he's preparing his heart by asking himself these questions.
But he was desirous of putting Jehovah's work first.
Now notice here in verse 10, it says,
and then he wanted to consult the law of Jehovah.
That's why we love Ezra.
He consults the law of Jehovah.
That was his love. That was his first priority.
He didn't consult the arithmetic, the astronomy, the history,
the chronology, and the geography of Babylon.
No, it was the law of Jehovah.
In fact, Ezra had deep respect for that law of Jehovah.
He's the one who wrote first and second chronicles.
It shows that he was a deep student of God's word.
If you're familiar with Psalm 119 and 18,
you can imagine him saying before studying,
open my eyes so that I may see clearly the wonderful things of your law.
That's Ezra.
And when we think about him and how he meditated deeply
on the information that he gathered,
he gathered information about the kings of Judah,
about the priesthood.
That was his interest to track the line leading to the Messiah.
But he did more than just gather facts.
He applied what he learned.
It touched his heart.
How do we know?
Notice in verse 10, it said,
after consulting the law of Jehovah and to practice it.
To practice it, Ezra was ready to act upon what he studied.
What he learned stirred his feelings, touched his emotions,
and moved him to draw closer to Jehovah God.
That was his whole goal of studying.
And then he acted to help his brothers.
He did move to Jerusalem.
He acted. He did it.
In spite of the inconveniences and the problems that he would be facing.
But now let's look at chapter 8 and verse 22.
Just to highlight again how he was moved by what he read.
It's just not a fact-finding mission.
Chapter 8, verse 22.
It says here that he was ready to leave Babylon
and move to Jerusalem.
And speaking to the king, he said,
I was ashamed to ask the king for soldiers
and horsemen to protect us against the enemies along the way.
I'm ashamed to do that.
Because we had said to the king the good hand of our God
is over all those seeking him.
His strength is against all those that are against him.
I was ashamed.
What's the point?
Well, as he again tracked those Judean kings
because that's what first and second Chronicle does.
It tracks the Judean kings leading to the Messiah.
So imagine how he meditated when he got to David
or Hezekiah.
185,000 Assyrians killed in one night.
What about Josiah?
What about Asa?
A million Ethiopians killed.
What about Jehoshaphat?
Combined enemies of Moab and Edom and so forth.
And Amen came up against Jehoshaphat.
And yet Jehovah defended them.
He had this in his mind.
And that's why he said, I'm ashamed
because of what I've studied.
No, I don't need an escort, dear king.
Jehovah is going to be with us.
So it just shows the same point for us when we study.
And it's part of our worship.
And we study to draw close to Jehovah God.
Not simply to gather facts, but to allow our attachment
to Jehovah God to get stronger.
Example, the Watchtower study.
Yes, we study the Watchtower.
But is it just to find an answer?
Is it that I need to make a comment?
That's not why we study the Watchtower magazine.
It's part of pure worship.
It's being fed by the faithful and discreet slave.
We read the Watchtower.
We open the scriptures to draw close to Jehovah God.
And in the meantime, yes, I found an answer.
I can make a comment.
But our primary goal is to feed our hearts.
How do I feel about what I'm reading?
We prepare our hearts.
What is my motive in studying the lesson?
Each time we open up God's word, our attitude should be like...
Like Samuel, who was told,
speak Jehovah for your servant is listening.
Ezra also was given insight and understanding.
And that enabled him to be a blessing to the nation
as he dug deep into God's word.
For example, chapter 9 and verse 2.
He recognized when he got there to Jerusalem
that the Holy offspring was being mingled with the pagan nations.
The men were marrying these pagan women.
Ezra saw the disastrous consequences.
You're going to mingle the holy seed along with pagan women.
You're going to assimilate the whole nation into a pagan environment.
You're going to merge true worship.
It could vanish from the earth in time if not careful.
You wouldn't be able to locate the Messiah, the lineage,
is either the line of David.
What we don't know is you have the tribe of Judah.
We don't know. Ezra saw that.
And he acted because of the insight that Jehovah God gave him.
Now, notice chapter 10 and verse 1.
Because it again gives us insight into the beauty of Ezra's personality.
When he did act on it and got rid of those foreign wives,
chapter 10 and verse 1.
His humble confession before Jehovah God.
And what happens when he humbly prays to Jehovah?
A large crowd of men and women and children of Jerusalem
gathered around him and were weeping.
That's Ezra.
They did not cringe and retreat before a tyrant.
Rather, they were drawn to a loving shepherd.